 [[Notes Jeremy IT Labs|🔙 Retour à l'index ]] 
---

## What is a Network?

A **computer network** is a digital telecommunications system that enables **nodes** to share **resources** effectively.

- A **client** is a device that accesses services provided by a **server**.
- A **server** is a device that offers functions or services to clients.

*Note: The same device can act as both a client and a server, such as in a peer-to-peer network.*

---

## Networking Devices

### Switches (Layer 2)

- Provide connectivity to hosts within the same **Local Area Network (LAN)**.
- Feature multiple network interfaces/ports for end hosts to connect.
- **Do not** facilitate connectivity between different LANs or over the Internet.

### Routers (Layer 3)

- Typically have fewer network interfaces than switches.
- Serve to connect and route data **between different LANs**.
- Responsible for sending data over the **Internet**.

### Firewalls (Can operate at Layers 3, 4, and 7)

- Firewalls are specialized hardware or software devices that control network traffic entering and exiting your network.
- Can be positioned **inside** or **outside** the network perimeter.
- Monitor and manage network traffic based on **configured rules**.
- Known as **Next-Generation Firewalls** when equipped with advanced filtering capabilities.
- **Host-based firewalls** are software applications that filter traffic entering and exiting a host machine, such as a PC.

---
 [[Notes Jeremy IT Labs|🔙 Retour à l'index ]] | [[1. NETWORKING DEVICES#What is a Network?|⬆️ Retour en haut]]